feat(ama-openapi): add skill to ama-openapi tools (#4184)
AmadeusITGroup/otter: tools/llm/plugins/ama-openapi/README.md

LLM will invoke the `create-openapi-project` skill and provide the command:

```bash
npm create @ama-openapi flight-search
```

### Adding an External Model

User: "I need to add the Passenger model from @travel/api-models"

LLM will invoke `add-dependency-model` and provide:

1. Installation command
2. Instructions to locate the model
3. Manifest configuration

### Renaming a Model

User: "The FlightOfferDetails model should be renamed to just Flight"

LLM will invoke `rename-model` and show how to update the manifest:

```json
{
  "models": {
    "FlightOfferDetails": {
      "transforms": {
        "rename": "Flight"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Creating a Mask

User: "I want to expose only the public fields of the User model"

LLM will invoke `create-mask` and configure the transforms:

```json
{
  "transforms": {
    "masks": {
      "properties": {
        "id": true,
        "name": true,
        "email": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Related Packages

- [`@ama-openapi/core`](../../../../packages/@ama-openapi/core) - Core OpenAPI utilities
- `npm create @ama-openapi` - Project scaffolding tool

## Development

### Converting MCP Tools to Skills

> Each MCP tool in `packages/@ama-openapi/mcp/src/server/tools/` has been converted to a skill:

Reviewer: does `packages/@ama-openapi/mcp/src/server/tools/` exist?

# Amadeus OpenAPI Plugin

> A Claude Code plugin that provides skills for working with Amadeus OpenAPI specification projects. This plugin helps you create, manage, and configure OpenAPI projects using the `@ama-openapi` tooling.

Reviewer: is it only for Claude or open to other LLMs?

> A Claude Code plugin that provides skills for working with Amadeus OpenAPI specification projects. This plugin helps you create, manage, and configure OpenAPI projects using the `@ama-openapi` tooling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A LLM  plugin that provides skills for working with Amadeus OpenAPI specification projects. This plugin helps you create, manage, and configure OpenAPI projects using the `@ama-openapi` tooling.
```
as it will be the readme for the VSCode plugin also

## Overview

> This plugin converts the functionality of the [`@ama-openapi/mcp`](../../packages/@ama-openapi/mcp) MCP server into Claude Code skills, providing a more integrated experience for working with OpenAPI specifications.

Reviewer 2: This could be removed

- Only affects generated code

### 4. create-mask

Creates field masks to expose only specific model fields.

**Usage**: Invoked by Claude when discussing field visibility

**When to use**:
- Exposing only a subset of model properties
- Creating different views of the same model (public vs internal)
- Hiding sensitive fields from external APIs
- Reducing payload sizes

**Invocation**: Both user and Claude

**What it does**:
- Configures `transforms.masks` in the manifest
- Supports nested objects
- Can create multiple named masks

## Installation

### As a Local Plugin

1. Ensure you're in the Otter repository root
2. The plugin is available at `tools/llm/plugins/ama-openapi`
3. Install it in Claude Code:
   ```bash
   claude plugin install tools/llm/plugins/ama-openapi
   ```

### MCP Server (Optional)

This plugin also includes an optional MCP server configuration that provides the same tools through the Model Context Protocol. The MCP server is automatically configured when you install the plugin.

To use the MCP server directly (without the plugin), add to your `.mcp.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "ama-openapi": {
      "command": "npx",

>       "args": ["-y", "-p", "@ama-openapi/mcp", "ama-openapi-mcp"]

Reviewer 2: This MCP does not exist anymore

    }
  }
}
```

**Skills vs MCP Server**: Skills provide better integration with Claude Code (custom invocation modes, rich documentation), while the MCP server offers compatibility with any MCP-enabled client.

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (LTS recommended)
- npm or yarn
- An OpenAPI project or intent to create one

## Usage Examples

### Creating a New Project

User: "I want to create a new OpenAPI project called flight-search"

> Claude will invoke the `create-openapi-project` skill and provide the command:

Reviewer 2: It's not necessary Claude

Reviewer 2: same issue below

```bash
npm create @ama-openapi flight-search
```

### Adding an External Model

User: "I need to add the Passenger model from @travel/api-models"

Claude will invoke `add-dependency-model` and provide:
1. Installation command
2. Instructions to locate the model
3. Manifest configuration

### Renaming a Model

User: "The FlightOfferDetails model should be renamed to just Flight"

Claude will invoke `rename-model` and show how to update the manifest:
```json
{
  "models": {
    "FlightOfferDetails": {
      "transforms": {
        "rename": "Flight"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Creating a Mask

User: "I want to expose only the public fields of the User model"

Claude will invoke `create-mask` and configure the transforms:
```json
{
  "transforms": {
    "masks": {
      "properties": {
        "id": true,
        "name": true,
        "email": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Related Packages

- [`@ama-openapi/core`](../../packages/@ama-openapi/core) - Core OpenAPI utilities
- `npm create @ama-openapi` - Project scaffolding tool

> ## File Structure

Reviewer 2: I would not keep what is written from this line to the end

Reviewer 2: or maybe only the support section
